docs: converting v1alpha1 to v1alpha2 in docs (#671)
belastingdienst/opr-paas: docs/overview/core_concepts/secrets.md

---
title: Encrypted secrets
summary: How encrypted secret can be leveraged to have the Paas operator create secrets in paas managed namespaces.
authors:
  - devotional-phoenix-97
date: 2025-07-17
---

# Encrypted Secrets

To enable bootstrapping a project 100% 'as code', the Paas operator has a feature called `Encrypted Secrets`.

The idea is that people can create a Paas to bootstrap an application front to
back, including required namespaces, quotas, an application specific ArgoCD and a
running application, in one go.

However, when using private repositories, ArgoCD needs to be provided with an SSH
key (as a secret) for ArgoCD to gain access to the git repository. These ssh secrets
need to be provided before ArgoCD can start acting on repo contents, which is why
providing these secrets is part of the Paas solution.

Another consideration was that we want `secrets` to be defined in a Paas, and
since Paas can be readable to the world, and we naturally don't want the secrets

> to be open, which is why we implemented encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another consideration was that we want `secret`s to be defined in a Paas, and
since a Paas can be public, we naturally don't want the secrets
to be plain-text, which is why we implemented encryption.
```

Encryption is based on RSA where a public key (shared with everyone) is used to
encrypt, and a private key (deployed with the Paas operator) is used to decrypt.

> Which that everyone can encrypt, but only the Paas operator can decrypt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such that everyone can encrypt, but only the Paas operator can decrypt.
```
